docs/useful_tools.md, before:

Apart from training/testing scripts, We provide lots of useful tools under the
 `tools/` directory.

### Get the FLOPs and params (experimental)

We provide a script adapted from [flops-counter.pytorch](https://github.com/sovrasov/flops-counter.pytorch) to compute the FLOPs and params of a given model.

```shell
python tools/get_flops.py ${CONFIG_FILE} [--shape ${INPUT_SHAPE}]
```

You will get the result like this.

```none
==============================
Input shape: (3, 2048, 1024)
Flops: 1429.68 GMac
Params: 48.98 M
==============================
```

**Note**: This tool is still experimental and we do not guarantee that the number is correct. You may well use the result for simple comparisons, but double check it before you adopt it in technical reports or papers.

(1) FLOPs are related to the input shape while parameters are not. The default input shape is (1, 3, 1280, 800).
(2) Some operators are not counted into FLOPs like GN and custom operators.

### Publish a model

Before you upload a model to AWS, you may want to
(1) convert model weights to CPU tensors, (2) delete the optimizer states and
(3) compute the hash of the checkpoint file and append the hash id to the filename.

```shell
python tools/publish_model.py ${INPUT_FILENAME} ${OUTPUT_FILENAME}
```

E.g.,

```shell
python tools/publish_model.py work_dirs/pspnet/latest.pth psp_r50_hszhao_200ep.pth
```

The final output filename will be `psp_r50_512x1024_40ki_cityscapes-{hash id}.pth`.

### Convert to ONNX (experimental)

We provide a script to convert model to [ONNX](https://github.com/onnx/onnx) format. The converted model could be visualized by tools like [Netron](https://github.com/lutzroeder/netron). Besides, we also support comparing the output results between Pytorch and ONNX model.

```shell
python tools/pytorch2onnx.py ${CONFIG_FILE} --checkpoint ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} --output-file ${ONNX_FILE} [--shape ${INPUT_SHAPE} --verify]
```

**Note**: This tool is still experimental. Some customized operators are not supported for now.

## Miscellaneous

### Print the entire config

`tools/print_config.py` prints the whole config verbatim, expanding all its
 imports.

```shell
python tools/print_config.py ${CONFIG} [-h] [--options ${OPTIONS [OPTIONS...]}]
```

### Plot training logs

`tools/analyze_logs.py` plot s loss/mIoU curves given a training log file. `pip install seaborn` first to install the dependency.

```shell
python tools/analyze_logs.py xxx.log.json [--keys ${KEYS}] [--legend ${LEGEND}] [--backend ${BACKEND}] [--style ${STYLE}] [--out ${OUT_FILE}]
```

Examples:

- Plot the mIoU, mAcc, aAcc metrics.

  ```shell
  python tools/analyze_logs.py log.json --keys mIoU mAcc aAcc --legend mIoU mAcc aAcc
  ```

- Plot loss metric.

  ```shell
  python tools/analyze_logs.py log.json --keys loss --legend loss
  ```

Commit message:

add dynamic export and visualize to pytorch2onnx (#463)
* add dynamic export and visualize to pytorch2onnx

* update document

* fix lint

* fix dynamic error and add visualization

* fix lint

* update docstring

* update doc

* Update help info for --show

Co-authored-by: Jerry Jiarui XU <xvjiarui0826@gmail.com>

* fix lint

Co-authored-by: maningsheng <maningsheng@sensetime.com>
Co-authored-by: Jerry Jiarui XU <xvjiarui0826@gmail.com>

docs/useful_tools.md, after:

Apart from training/testing scripts, We provide lots of useful tools under the
 `tools/` directory.

### Get the FLOPs and params (experimental)

We provide a script adapted from [flops-counter.pytorch](https://github.com/sovrasov/flops-counter.pytorch) to compute the FLOPs and params of a given model.

```shell
python tools/get_flops.py ${CONFIG_FILE} [--shape ${INPUT_SHAPE}]
```

You will get the result like this.

```none
==============================
Input shape: (3, 2048, 1024)
Flops: 1429.68 GMac
Params: 48.98 M
==============================
```

**Note**: This tool is still experimental and we do not guarantee that the number is correct. You may well use the result for simple comparisons, but double check it before you adopt it in technical reports or papers.

(1) FLOPs are related to the input shape while parameters are not. The default input shape is (1, 3, 1280, 800).
(2) Some operators are not counted into FLOPs like GN and custom operators.

### Publish a model

Before you upload a model to AWS, you may want to
(1) convert model weights to CPU tensors, (2) delete the optimizer states and
(3) compute the hash of the checkpoint file and append the hash id to the filename.

```shell
python tools/publish_model.py ${INPUT_FILENAME} ${OUTPUT_FILENAME}
```

E.g.,

```shell
python tools/publish_model.py work_dirs/pspnet/latest.pth psp_r50_hszhao_200ep.pth
```

The final output filename will be `psp_r50_512x1024_40ki_cityscapes-{hash id}.pth`.

### Convert to ONNX (experimental)

We provide a script to convert model to [ONNX](https://github.com/onnx/onnx) format. The converted model could be visualized by tools like [Netron](https://github.com/lutzroeder/netron). Besides, we also support comparing the output results between Pytorch and ONNX model.

```bash
python tools/pytorch2onnx.py \
    ${CONFIG_FILE} \
    --checkpoint ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} \
    --output-file ${ONNX_FILE} \
    --input-img ${INPUT_IMG} \
    --shape ${INPUT_SHAPE} \
    --show \
    --verify \
    --dynamic-export \
    --cfg-options \
      model.test_cfg.mode="whole"
```

Description of arguments:

- `config` : The path of a model config file.
- `--checkpoint` : The path of a model checkpoint file.
- `--output-file`: The path of output ONNX model. If not specified, it will be set to `tmp.onnx`.
- `--input-img` : The path of an input image for conversion and visualize.
- `--shape`: The height and width of input tensor to the model. If not specified, it will be set to `256 256`.
- `--show`: Determines whether to print the architecture of the exported model. If not specified, it will be set to `False`.
- `--verify`: Determines whether to verify the correctness of an exported model. If not specified, it will be set to `False`.
- `--dynamic-export`: Determines whether to export ONNX model with dynamic input and output shapes. If not specified, it will be set to `False`.
- `--cfg-options`:Update config options.

**Note**: This tool is still experimental. Some customized operators are not supported for now.

## Miscellaneous

### Print the entire config

`tools/print_config.py` prints the whole config verbatim, expanding all its
 imports.

```shell
python tools/print_config.py ${CONFIG} [-h] [--options ${OPTIONS [OPTIONS...]}]
```

### Plot training logs

`tools/analyze_logs.py` plot s loss/mIoU curves given a training log file. `pip install seaborn` first to install the dependency.

```shell
python tools/analyze_logs.py xxx.log.json [--keys ${KEYS}] [--legend ${LEGEND}] [--backend ${BACKEND}] [--style ${STYLE}] [--out ${OUT_FILE}]
```

Examples:

- Plot the mIoU, mAcc, aAcc metrics.

  ```shell
  python tools/analyze_logs.py log.json --keys mIoU mAcc aAcc --legend mIoU mAcc aAcc
  ```

- Plot loss metric.

  ```shell
  python tools/analyze_logs.py log.json --keys loss --legend loss
  ```
